>> Jon Kuperman: So during that break I
had probably the smallest little exercise
which was just going over ARIA roles,
HTML5 elements, things like that.
So I think the example that I included,
yeah it's just this little page
that doesn't look like too much.
But if we were to go into the code for
it,
>> Jon Kuperman: Basically
we could just see a couple of things,
it's kind of up to you.
I mean, I use the word article and
class article to hint that this could
probably be an article tag in HTML.
A lot of this stuff's subjective, but
I think in general with how good HTML5
is and how gracefully it falls back.
You just don't wanna have a million divs
basically all over the place when you
could have something that
did a little bit more.
So if you wanted to you could
change these to articles, and
then you could even give them.
Like we talked about for the old browsers
or old screen readers, role="article".
Also like I mentioned before,
content structure, so
seeing as this Semantic HTML is the top
of logical structure it should be in h1.
And so we can choose that, turn h1 and
even if we wanted we
could put a class on it.
We could give it a class of smaller and
then we could go ahead and
resize that with CSS to make
it smaller if we wanted.
So yeah, similarly make those article,
role="article", something like that.
Okay we've got a third one here.
>> Jon Kuperman: Which will just make it
a little bit nicer when it's being read
to your users, if I spell it right, cool.
And then we could float those or
do whatever we want, as needed.
Another thing is just being wary
of your content instructor,
so if we go back over here and
I turn back on my screen reader.
And then I hit Ctrl-Option-U, and
then I go over to the right, to headings.
It looks a little bit disjointed,
so it'll be like,
we have Semantic HTML as
the top one now which is great.
But then these are really all just
articles, some of them are in h3, and
one's in h4.
So again,
just like kinda cleaning through,
how would you people to navigate the site?
I would assume you'd want this to
be the h1 like we changed it and
these probably are h2's.
They should be top level things
that you wanna click on.
So again, if you wanted to go back,
let me turn the screen reader off.
If you wanted to go back in and
just change, let me find the first one,
probably all of these to h2's.
>> Jon Kuperman: Something like that,
give that a refresh.
We don't wanna use CSS to make them
float or make them a little smaller.
Then I turn my screen reader back on and
go to our,
>> Jon Kuperman: To headings again.
And that looks pretty nice, so
if somebody's coming to this site.
It's contrived but assuming that you
had a lot of real content on here,
like news articles or something like that.
It would be really nice for them to hit
this and it would say New York Times.
And then article titles would be
like "Trump did something silly" or
whatever it is.
Now this recording isn't gonna be
timeless cuz I made a political joke,
that's too bad.
Okay so yeah, so basically having
a little bit of understanding for
how people might be browsing your site.
When we do all those CSS tricks they're
changing them to h2's to make them
smaller.
It's only having a good effect on sighted,
on visual users.
Where it's actually having a really bad
effect on people that may be viewing it
in other ways.
So cleaning this up so
that it works well for
both groups is fantastic.
>> Jon Kuperman: Go ahead and
turn the screen reader off again, or not.
>> Jon Kuperman: Get
me out of here.
>> Jon Kuperman: Okay cool, so
going back into it, and
this one's really good too.
I think that we're gonna get into
tools later where you can kind of run
an audit of sites.
But I do think in general those
important kinda checklists items,
like using the right markup,
is applicable for buttons and form fields.
But it's also applicable for
your headers and your HTML5 tags too.
Okay cool, so some more like
checklists that we can get off,
semantic markup for
the headings and lists, great.
And then the reading and
navigation order is logical and intuitive.
So again kinda going back you can use
voice over as heading section to kinda
a quick spot check.
But again, your h1 is down your h5's or
whatever you use.
That should really outline the structure
of your content in a logical way.
Like title of your whole page,
each article title, and
then maybe article sub title.
Whatever you wanna have should
be logical and ordered that way.
And then going in the robust, these ones
are interesting to be Level A compliant.
Are they talking about HTML and
XHTML validation?
So I think this is something that
used to be really common practice,
really required if you
were gonna launch a site.
And I feel like it's kind of gotten
less and less popular over the years for
some reason.
But the W3 has its own validator,
validator.w3.org.
And you can put in any website into
that or even copy paste HTML and
it'll catch spec areas.
Like if you don't have a closing tag
when you need one or if you have
an attribute that doesn't belong to
an element, all sorts of things like that.
I feel like yeah, that used to be like
everybody did it and now day I feel like
nobody does it, but it's important to do.
>> Speaker 2: I thought the functionality
is built into a lot of linters now days.
>> Jon Kuperman: So
you can get some cool stuff.
If you're using eslint you
can get some neat stuff about
attributes that don't belong.
But if you're using a big dynamic app,
like sometimes you can have elements
accidentally appearing outside of other.
You can still run into
a decent amount of problems.
Same thing with your like meta tags in
the head and some things like that which
can get caught in validator but
might not get caught in a linter.
But they do go a really long way.